.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt 42SH 1
.Os



.Sh NAME
.Nm 42sh
.Nd C shell based on CSH




.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ./42sh




.Sh DESCRIPTION

.Nm 
is an enhanced but completely compatible version of the Berkeley
UNIX C shell, 
.Pa csh(1).

It is a command language interpreter usable as an interactive login shell.
.Pp

It includes a command-line editor (see \fBThe command-line editor\fR),
a word completion (see \fBCompletion and listing\fR),
a management of commands susbtitution (backquotes) (see \fBCommands susbtitution\fR),
a management of local variables (see \fBLocal variables\fR),
a history of command (see \fBHistory of command\fR),
job control (see \fBJobs\fR)
and a C-like syntax.
.Pp

$1 - $9       these variables are the positional parameters.

$0            the name of the command currently being executed.

$#            the number of positional arguments given to this
              invocation of the shell.

$?            the exit status of the last command executed is
              given as a decimal string.  When a command
              completes successfully, it returns the exit status
              of 0 (zero), otherwise it returns a non-zero exit
              status.

$$            the process number of this shell - useful for
              including in filenames, to make them unique.

$!            the process id of the last command run in
              the background.

$-            the current options supplied to this invocation
              of the shell.

$*            a string containing all the arguments to the
              shell, starting at $1.

$@            same as above, except when quoted.


.Sh THE COMMAND-LINE EDITOR
.Nm
commands are build to be easy to use:
.It Fl p
down
\fIdown-history\fR

.It Fl p
up
\fIup-history\fR

.It Fl p
left
\fIbackward-char\fR

.It Fl p
right
\fIforward-char\fR

.It Fl p
delete
\fIdelete backward-char\fR

.It Fl p
tab
\fIcommand-line completion\fR

.PD

.Sh COMPLETION AND LISTING

.PD

.Sh COMMANDS SUBSTITUTION

.PD

.Sh LOCAL VARIABLES

.PD

.Sh HISTORY OF COMMAND

.PD

.Sh JOBS

.PD

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width includes/shell.h -compact
.It Pa includes/shell.h
.It Pa src/*.c
.El


.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,




.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
is able to troll his user. It can be launch only in 42's School.
.Pp




.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
was created by cobrecht, tibernar, rmasse and rda-cost in order to honor the Heart of Code.





.Sh BUGS
.Nm
let cd beetween backquotes change the actual dir, instead of having the same behavior than the others shell.



.Nm
is able to support a few option :
.Ar utility .
After the
.Ar utility
finishes,
.Nm
writes the total time elapsed,
the time consumed by system overhead,
and the time used to execute
.Ar utility
to the standard error stream.
Times are reported in seconds.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl l
The contents of the
.Em rusage
structure are printed.
.It Fl p
The output is formatted as specified by
.St -p1003.2-92 .
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility exists as a built-in to most shells,
although they may be syntactically different.
The utility described here is available as
.Pa /usr/bin/time .
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility shall exit with one of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It 1\-125
An error occurred in the
.Nm
utility.
.It 126
The
.Ar utility
was found but could not be invoked.
.It 127
The
.Ar utility
could not be found.
.El
.Pp
Otherwise, the exit status of
.Nm
shall be that of
.Ar utility .

